# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-12-10

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 17:00 to 18:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EST (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
  - 02:00 to 03:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md
- Github vs bitbucket vs generic git protocol types
- univers PRs:
  - https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/149
  - https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/177/files

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Immanuel Kunz
- Jon Moroney
- Salve J. Nilsen
- John-David Dalton
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog confirmed the meeting was recorded and announced that ECMA approved PURL as a standard, which Steve Springett further confirmed along with Common Lifecycle Enumeration (CLE) and CycloneDX 1.7.  Steve Springett also reported that the ISO JTC1 FastTrack process was approved for CycloneDX and Package-URL (PURL).
  - Michael Herzog emphasized testing as the biggest blocker to progress due to unclear standards, while he and John Horan continue working on the website and preparing for the PURL spec Release v1.0.0.
  - Immanuel Kunz discussed two pull requests for univers, one of which sparked discussion with Jon Moroney, John-David Dalton, and Philippe Ombredanne about the risks of a `libversion` fallback option for versioning, leading Philippe Ombredanne to advise Immanuel Kunz to remove the config option and adopt a documented `libversion` scheme.
  - Jon Moroney, Salve Nilsen, Philippe Ombredanne, and Michael Herzog discussed the need for a generic `git` PURL type for encoding source code identifiers due to the limitations of existing types and the complexity of VCS URLs, with Jon Moroney planning to prototype a solution.
  - Philippe Ombredanne also updated the team on ongoing PURL validation work, including a validator tool and plans for a simple C/C++ and off-registry package registry to support efforts like those of Greg Kroah-Hartman for the Linux kernel.
- **Meeting Minutes Review and Recording** Michael Herzog confirmed that the meeting was being recorded and that the minutes from the previous meeting were available in the usual place on GitHub ([https://github.com/package-url/community/blob/main/meetings/purl-community/2025-11-12.md](https://github.com/package-url/community/blob/main/meetings/purl-community/2025-11-12.md)), and requested that any comments or updates be submitted as a PR. Philippe Ombredanne joked about the efficiency of AI for voice transcription, which Michael Herzog called the "MLM, the micro language model," highlighting its high reliability (00:00:00).
- **Ecma Standard Approval for PURL** Michael Herzog announced that Ecma approved PURL as a standard, likely to be numbered in the 43 or 44 series, and thanked everyone for their work, recognizing this as the beginning of the journey (00:01:01). Steve Springett later confirmed that PURL, Common Lifecycle Enumeration (CLE), and CycloneDX 1.7 were all ratified today (00:07:44).
- **Website and Release 1.0 Updates** Michael Herzog and John Horan are continuing to work on the website, which is available on github.io. A key pending item is realigning the text in the `/doc/standard` folder of the purl-spec repository to match the final Ecma standard text, which is necessary before doing a Release 1.0 of the purl-spec repo (00:01:49). Michael Herzog hopes to finalize this by early next week (00:02:46).
- **Testing and Community Friction** Michael Herzog identified testing as the "biggest blocker" for general ecosystem or community progress, noting friction in the approval of new PURL type requests due to a lack of clear rules and standards for tests (00:02:46) (00:05:59). They mentioned creating an issue and drafts to address issues such as test groups, unique test IDs (e.g., one test case per file), and validation test types (00:03:59).
- **Celebration of Ecma Approval** Steve Springett inquired about a release party (00:05:59). Philippe Ombredanne suggested a small virtual release party, possibly with Michael Herzog, John Horan, and Salve J. Nilsen (00:06:53). Michael Herzog humorously referenced the Jewish tradition of the cup for Elijah, suggesting a cup could be put out for others not physically present (00:07:44).
- **ISO JTC1 Fast Track Approval** Steve Springett shared that Ecma standard ratification had a positive vote for all three specifications (PURL, CLE, and CycloneDX), and two additional votes were approved for the ISO JTC1 FastTrack process for CycloneDX and Package-URL (PURL) (00:08:38). Steve Springett reported this positive news to the General Assembly, mentioning that PURL is the most widely used specification from TC-54, representing upwards of billions of components daily (00:09:31).
- **Pending Pull Requests in univers** Immanuel Kunz mentioned two pull requests, one already approved and ready to be merged, and the other a draft about using `libversion` as a fallback option in `universe` if other comparison algorithms fail (00:10:45) (00:16:45). Immanuel Kunz confirmed that they reimplemented `libversion` to avoid upstream dependencies (00:18:06).
- **Discussion on `libversion` Fallback Configuration** The team discussed Immanuel Kunz's proposed configuration option for a `libversion` fallback (00:18:06). Jon Moroney and John-David Dalton expressed reservations, fearing that a default versioning scheme could lead to a "surprise effect" or encourage user laziness and create a "degenerate support burden" (00:20:24). Philippe Ombredanne suggested documenting a specific scheme and making the fallback a user choice rather than a configuration setting (00:19:07) (00:26:16).
- **Guidance on `libversion` Implementation** Philippe Ombredanne advised Immanuel Kunz to remove the config option, adopt a documented `libversion` scheme, and suggested using the test suite of the original `libversion` author with proper crediting and vendoring, potentially using git history filtering to include only the necessary files and notices (00:23:12).
- **GitHub and Bitbucket PURL Types for Git Repos** Jon Moroney brought up the need for a generic `git` protocol type, questioning the difference between the existing `github` and `bitbucket` types and why a generic `git` type does not exist (00:11:51). Michael Herzog confirmed a voluminous existing issue on this topic (00:13:00) (00:29:26).
- **Distinction between Git Repos and Package Types** Philippe Ombredanne explained that `github`, `gitlab`, and `bitbucket` PURLs are not just about Git; they rise to a "package like" level because they imply protocols for issues, APIs, releases, and packages beyond a bare version control repository (00:31:22). Jon acknowledged this distinction (00:34:03).
- **Relevance of Git Repositories in the Vulnerability Space** Jon highlighted the importance of enabling high-precision expressions of vulnerabilities using commit data, especially since much code is stored in Git repos without a formal package registry (00:39:07) (00:49:25). Jon is working on a tool to allow people to make "commit oriented publications" (00:40:26) (00:42:36). Philippe Ombredanne noted that the current references to Git commits in CVEs are often unstructured and that adding a structured Git PURL type would be highly beneficial (00:50:47).
- **Discussion on Git PURL Type Creation** The group discussed whether to create a new `git` PURL type or rely on the existing vcs_url mechanism (00:46:13). Salve J. Nilsen questioned the need for a new type, suggesting a regular URL pointing to a public commit could suffice since there is no namespace (00:53:01). Jon Moroney argued that a dedicated type is needed to ensure the URL is automatable and automatically ingestible by tools, as a regular URL doesn't convey its source code nature (00:54:23). Michael Herzog noted that the existing vcs_url, based on an SPDX example, is complex and not well-documented as a known qualifier (00:46:13) (00:48:10).
- **Addressing Source Code Identifier Encoding** Jon concluded that enabling a base case, such as a generic `git` type, would make it easier for users in the CVE community to encode source code identifiers without needing to worry about the specific hosting platform or complex encoding details (00:49:25) (00:52:07). Philippe Ombredanne supported this, acknowledging that a `git` type, even a "lesser PURL type," would be super helpful given the current state of commit references in CVEs (00:50:47).
- **Git URL Scheme and PURL Type Discussion** Philippe Ombredanne initiated a discussion on defining a PURL type for Git repositories, referencing a specific commit, branch, tag, and subpath. Salve J. Nilsen noted that current Git collaboration platforms support this through HTTPS and Git schema URLs. Jon, recognizing a need for a prototype and gaps in their own Git understanding, offered to create a prototype and requested feedback from Salve J. Nilsen in January (00:57:51). Michael Herzog emphasized the importance of documenting why a PURL type might not be the best solution for Git to direct people to other solutions (01:00:07).
- **End-User Experience and PURL Standardization** Jon Moroney expressed the desire for end-users to use a single, understandable URL for source code analysis, such as a Git repo, without needing to think about complex encoding (01:01:16). Jon prefers a single PURL type to support this, though acknowledging they lack a strong argument beyond gut reaction, and planned to return in January with a stronger argument after experimentation (01:02:01). Philippe Ombredanne reinforced the project's adherence to the Ecma standard, implying the need for PURLs, and encouraged Jon to proceed with experimentation and reporting the findings (01:01:16).
- **Tracking Fixed Commits and OSV Project** Jon introduced the OSV project, which traces Git commits to packages in various ecosystems, suggesting it's a scalable alternative to iterating every ecosystem. Philippe Ombredanne shared a link to ongoing work focused specifically on tracking fixed commits ([https://github.com/orgs/aboutcode-org/projects/52/views/1?filterQuery=fix+commit](https://github.com/orgs/aboutcode-org/projects/52/views/1?filterQuery=fix+commit)) (01:02:57). They discussed the importance of tracking fixed commits, noting that currently, most reported information is just the fixed commit, not the commit where the issue was introduced (01:04:01). Michael Herzog confirmed that vulnerable components collect GitHub Security Advisories (GHSA) data, which contains many fixed commits, which Philippe Ombredanne also intends to integrate into their project (01:05:01).
- **Methods for Identifying Fixed Commits and Curation** Philippe Ombredanne outlined three approaches for identifying fixed commits: structured information like GHSA or inferred references, mining logs (Git, issue, PRs), and analyzing vulnerability descriptions to find the file and use Git "blame" (01:05:46). They stressed that given the inherent fuzziness of these automated methods, a human review process is necessary to ensure accuracy and consensus on the relevant code segment for a vulnerability. Jon elaborated on GitHub's CVE assignment process, which relies on human review and code owner authority, lending credibility to the GitHub data (01:07:06).
- **PURL Validation and Continuous Data Collection** Philippe Ombredanne provided an update on ongoing work related to PURL validation and continuous data collection for various ecosystems using GitHub Actions (01:08:23). This process generates evergreen lists of known PURLs in simple YAML files, currently covering ecosystems like npm, PHP, Swift, Nuget, and others, with Maven updated less frequently (01:10:38). Jon noted that this is valuable for existence checks of public data (01:11:31).
- **PURL Validator Tool and C/C++ Registry** Philippe Ombredanne introduced the PURL validator tool, available in Rust, Go, and Python, which contains a compressed dataset of all known PURLs across ecosystems for existence checks (01:12:40). They also discussed the intent for a simple C/C++ and off-registry package registry within the PURL project. This registry would allow maintainers like Greg Kroah-Hartman (Linux) to register namespaces and eventually contribute lists of known versions and their sequence, potentially eliminating the need for a version scheme (01:14:16).
- **Linux Kernel and CVE Efforts** Jon referenced recent blog posts by Greg Kroah-Hartman about CVEs and the Linux kernel ([http://www.kroah.com/log/blog/2025/12/08/linux-cves-more-than-you-ever-wanted-to-know/](http://www.kroah.com/log/blog/2025/12/08/linux-cves-more-than-you-ever-wanted-to-know/)), noting that the Linux community is doing good work despite system limitations (01:15:43). Philippe Ombredanne affirmed the importance of supporting this effort, as Greg Kroah-Hartman is seeking a way to mint PURLs for the kernel and related projects like util-linux and KVM (01:17:09) (01:20:36). They discussed the distinction between the kernel proper and other sub-projects and the preference for expressing vulnerabilities based on what downstream consumers pull (01:19:16).
- **Definition of a Package Manager** Salve J. Nilsen shared a link defining a package manager ([https://nesbitt.io/2025/12/02/what-is-a-package-manager.html](https://nesbitt.io/2025/12/02/what-is-a-package-manager.html)) and proposed using its checklist of features to evaluate if a "git package" could satisfy those criteria, offering an indication of whether the current problem space requires a dedicated solution (01:20:36). Philippe Ombredanne agreed that this is an important debate and a useful prism for determining if a PURL should exist (01:21:30). They noted that focusing strictly on package managers excludes off-registry packages like those for Linux and OpenSSL (01:22:43).
- The meeting was adjourned.
