# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-09-03

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct [https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- Philippe - general update
- Michael - update on Ecma Standard doc
- Jon - [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/601](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/601)
- Immanuel - 2 open PRs for univers

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jon Moroney
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Immanuel Kunz
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)
- Tom Alrich
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Summary
  - Philippe Ombredanne updated the group on Package-URL developments, including its adoption in the CVE schema and new benchmarking tools.
  - Michael Herzog reported on the Ecma standard document's progress, noting schema naming inconsistencies.
  - The participants decided to standardize schema titles and omit the test schema from the Ecma standard, and discussed hosting schemas via a dedicated URL.
  - Key discussions revolved around the importance of consistent schema naming and the complexities of versioning schemes for Package-URLs.
- **Meeting Conduct and Roll Call** Philippe Ombredanne initiated the meeting by reminding attendees to adhere to the code of conduct. He then conducted a roll call, during which Michael Herzog committed to providing an update on the Ecma standard document, and Immanuel Kunz mentioned two open PRs in univers that they could share in the chat. Salve Nilsen expressed gratitude for a brilliant presentation on Monday regarding Package-URLs and other Ecma developments, and thanked Philippe Ombredanne for highlighting CPAN and Raku work on Package-URLs (00:00:00).
- **Updates on Package-URL Developments** Philippe Ombredanne provided updates on recent developments, including their presentation on Package-URL at the Linux Foundation's open-source security summit in Amsterdam, which was well-attended (00:01:33). They highlighted a discussion with a top Linux maintainer about using Package-URLs for kernel-related issues, leading to the possibility of allocating a namespace for them to create their own Package-URLs, especially relevant given the recent merge of a PR in the CVE schema (00:02:58).
- **Package-URL in CVE Schema** Philippe Ombredanne announced that Package-URL is now on the same footing as CPE in the CVE schema, though Jon clarified that Package-URLs are an optional additional identifier that must be paired with either a CPE or a distribution URL. Jon noted that in practice, distribution URLs would likely be used most often as they can be constructed from a Package-URL. Philippe Ombredanne emphasized the significance of this development, as it would enable CVE Numbering Authorities to provide Package-URLs with their CVE records (00:04:19).
- **Package-URL Validation and Benchmarking** Philippe Ombredanne mentioned a presentation and discussion with the CVE Quality Working Group on Package-URL validation, particularly concerning unusual Package-URLs and tools that return incorrect packages. They introduced a newly merged work-in-progress benchmark called "purl-benchmarks," which aims to establish a reference list of Package-URLs for community input to ensure consistent scanning results across tools (00:05:37).
- **Ecma Standard Document Update** Michael Herzog provided an update on the Ecma standard document, acknowledging that the September 1st deadline was missed, but they were still on track for the Ecma schedule. They explained that the main task was finalizing the schema sections, deciding to create separate, small sections for each schema due to issues encountered with flattening dynamic presentations into human-friendly static versions (00:08:56).
- **Schema Naming Consistency** Michael Herzog sought feedback on naming inconsistencies within the schema titles, noting that "purl-test-definition" in the `purl-test-schema` contrasted with "package-url" used elsewhere, and "package-url types list" in the `purl-types-index-schema` conflicted with the pervasive use of "index" (00:11:22). Jon and Steve Springett agreed that consistency was important, despite Michael Herzog not anticipating these changes to be material (00:12:25). Michael Herzog confirmed they would standardize these titles (00:13:14).
- **Schema Hosting and Local Copies** Steve Springett suggested that going forward, links on packageurl.org to the schemas should be 302 redirects to their actual locations to handle future repository changes (00:15:17). He also emphasized the importance of ensuring every tool has a local copy of the schema to avoid constant network lookups and to function in air-gapped environments, citing CycloneDX and SPDX as examples (00:16:35). Philippe Ombredanne suggested adding a recommendation in the specification for tools to vendor a copy of the schema (00:17:43).
- **URL for Schemas** Philippe Ombredanne proposed changing the URL in the JSON schemas to `schema.packagurl.org` to allow for hosting flexibility, potentially on a separate IP. Jon supported this, noting that it would make it easier for tools to pull down the current schema (00:18:55). Michael Herzog expressed concerns about increased complexity, but Philippe Ombredanne argued that it provides flexibility for hosting different components (e.g., website on GitHub Pages, schemas elsewhere) (00:20:06). Steve Springett highlighted that a dedicated schema URL would be beneficial for allow-listing purposes (00:21:10).
- **Omitting Test Schema from Standard** Steve Springett proposed omitting the test schema from the standard, including only the index and Package-URL type definitions, due to ongoing changes and its status as a work-in-progress (00:41:07). Michael Herzog agreed with this suggestion, emphasizing that the standard should be a subset of the specification and that early inclusion could lead to issues if changes are made later (00:42:11). Jon Moroney initially questioned whether the current test suite should still be included, but Michael Herzog reiterated that the test schema is complex and would benefit from further maturation outside the initial standard release (00:44:37).
- **Discussion on Versioning Schemes for Package-URLs** Michael Herzog noted a lively ongoing discussion about whether versions should be required for a Package-URL type, suggesting it might be a topic for a future call (00:46:04). Philippe Ombredanne then addressed Immanuel Kunz's two open PRs in Universe related to versioning, particularly PR 160 ([https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/160](https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/160)) concerning lexographic versioning. Philippe Ombredanne requested that Immanuel Kunz develop a formal test suite, similar to those in the `vers` spec, to ensure consistent behavior across different language implementations (Python, Ruby, Go, Java, etc.) and avoid ambiguities (00:47:00).
- **Challenges in Version Comparison** Philippe Ombredanne and Jon discussed the complexities of version comparison, highlighting that version schemes like SemVer only cover one type of version and often lack clear guidelines for comparing different fields or handling build metadata (00:51:12). Jon mentioned that SemVer's specification defines versions using a Backus-Naur Form, but its practical implementation is inconsistent across ecosystems, leading to varied interpretations and potential bugs in software (00:50:08) (00:52:25). Philippe Ombredanne noted that many language ecosystems claim to use SemVer but subtly deviate from the exact specification (00:55:14).
- The meeting was adjourned.
