# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-09-26 (ad hoc)

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
  - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Demo of packageurl.org prototype website
- Version scheme for PURL Spec

## Attendees

- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- John-David Dalton, Socket.dev
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
  - John-David: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/673
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog led an ad hoc PURL community meeting (replacing the scheduled TC54-TG2 meeting since Philippe Ombredanne was unable to attend) covering several key topics, including a review of the latest website version, formal rules for changing the PURL type definition schema, versioning for PURL types, and levels of test results for unregistered namespaces.
  - John-David Dalton introduced PR 673 related to a VS Code extension.
  - John Horan demonstrated the dynamic display of the JSON Schema files created with json-schema-for-humans.
  - Steve Springett provided feedback on the website's display of "implementations," suggested a 30-day public review for schema changes, and advocated for an HTTP-like versioning approach for PURL, while also strongly opposing PR 678 regarding "known qualifiers."
* **Website Review** Michael Herzog noted progress on the demo site homepage ([https://packageurl.jmh2025.xyz](https://packageurl.jmh2025.xyz)) and discussed the design of the homepage, emphasizing a visual grid of supported Package-URL (PURL) types, similar to common website practices, to convey covered types effectively (00:05:54). They also mentioned that the site map had been converted into GitHub issues, with sub-issues for each element like the header, footer, and various content items, following a Docusaurus-based layout with left and right-hand page menus (00:07:20).
* **Dynamic Schema Display and Styling** John Horan demonstrated the dynamic display of schemas they created with json-schema-for-humans ("JSFH") ([https://github.com/coveooss/json-schema-for-humans](https://github.com/coveooss/json-schema-for-humans)), showing the three basic schemas with an in-page table of contents on the right (00:08:32) ([https://packageurl.jmh2025.xyz/docs/purl-spec/purl-spec-schemas](https://packageurl.jmh2025.xyz/docs/purl-spec/purl-spec-schemas)). Steve Springett noted the similarity of the JSFH output to CycloneDX's schema display ([https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.6/json/](https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.6/json/)), highlighting that CycloneDX uses custom CSS and templates but omits breadcrumbs due to recursion issues in JSFH (00:10:28). Michael Herzog suggested addressing these display issues by removing breadcrumbs and adjusting fonts (00:11:32).
* **Improvements for Schema Navigation** Michael Herzog highlighted the improved interactive display of "one of" test requirements within the schema, which is more navigable than the flat mode. Michael and John plan to refine this interactive display over the next week (00:12:27).
* **Website Implementation Display Feedback** Steve Springett provided feedback on the website's display of "implementations," suggesting that the current eight-item rectangle is insufficient given the many more existing implementations (00:12:27). He proposed adding navigation arrows or a "more" option to link to a complete list, as some common languages like Java or Erlang are not immediately visible (00:13:29). John Horan clarified that this early demo version is meant solely as a placeholder demonstration of this and other features and noted the challenge in finding icons for some of the registered types, with the goal being to display all registered types (00:14:20).
* **Icon Management and Website Content** Michael Herzog discussed the need for a centralized directory of icons that can be reused across sites, noting that existing collections like FetchCode are incomplete for PURL's purposes (00:14:20). They also emphasized the importance of explaining the relationship between PURL and VERS on the website to clarify their functions and the option of versioning in PURL (00:55:07).
* **purl-spec Release and Documentation** Michael Herzog announced that they and John Horan are performing housekeeping tasks to prepare for a PURL 1.0 release by the end of the month, focusing on cleaning up documents within the purl-spec repository. They also shared an updated plan to separate the master VERS document into multiple sections, making the actual specification more accessible by moving background and commentary into distinct documents (00:16:22).
* **VS Code Extension Representation in PURL** John-David Dalton discussed an issue concerning the representation of VS Code extensions in PURL, as Socket is now analyzing them across multiple marketplaces (00:18:43). John-David noted that a path forward for this issue seems to have been resolved, with an agreed-upon approach for representation (00:20:00).
* **AI in PURL Implementations and Governance** John-David Dalton shared their use of AI to achieve 100% test coverage and feature parity for the JavaScript implementation of purl-spec, aligning it with other language implementations (00:21:04). Michael Herzog affirmed that while AI can assist in finding errors, all PURL-related pull requests and governance decisions will require human approval, and they do not intend to accept automated PRs (00:22:07).
* **Formal Process for Schema Changes** Michael Herzog proposed a more formal process for changes to PURL schemas, particularly the PURL type definition schema, requiring approval from the TG2 group (00:23:54). They suggested announcing these changes through existing channels with at least a week's lead time (00:25:20). Steve Springett supported this, suggesting a 30-day public review period similar to CycloneDX, emphasizing transparency and communication of the process on the website (00:26:39).
* **Versioning Strategy for PURL** Steve Springett advocated for a versioning approach similar to HTTP, using "PURL 1," "PURL 2," etc., rather than strict Semantic Versioning, to signify distinct versions of the standard and avoid breaking existing automated systems (00:31:00). This approach would allow for Maven 1.1 or 1.2 within Maven 1, and a Maven 2 would signify a major breaking change, with a mechanism to indicate deprecated or superseded versions without deleting them (00:32:27). Michael Herzog acknowledged this approach could trade off administrative work for the PURL team for less disruption for adopters (00:35:01).
* **Discussion of "Known Qualifiers" and Namespaces** Michael Herzog introduced a pull request ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/678](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/678)) to add "known values" (or "registered" values) to the namespace within the PURL type definition schema, using examples like Fedora or Red Hat for RPMs (00:41:16). Steve Springett strongly opposed this PR, arguing that it stifles innovation, particularly for ecosystems with millions of namespaces like JavaScript and Maven, and would require constant updates (00:44:18). Steve Springett further suggested that PURL tests should differentiate between validating identity and validating location, as a package might be identifiable even if its namespace isn't "registered" or locatable (00:45:13).
* **Information Storage for Ecosystems** Michael Herzog acknowledged the issue of storing ecosystem-specific information, such as icons or details about namespaces like Fedora versus Red Hat, referring to an open issue calling for a more general mechanism to capture such data outside the core PURL schema ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/601](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/601)) (00:47:30). Steve Springett agreed on the helpfulness of such information but reiterated his objection to including it in the schema due to potential abuse and maintenance burden. He suggested a pointer to an external JSON file or API that could provide this editorial information, such as known namespaces for Maven or npm, without embedding it directly in the schema (00:49:30). John-David Dalton offered Socket's metadata as a resource for ecosystem-level data (00:51:13).
* The meeting was adjourned.
