# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-09-17

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Michael Herzog - Show/review updated website prototype
- Michael Herzog - Agree scope of tasks to complete V1.0 Release of purl-spec
- Immanuel Kunz - 2 PRs: https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/pull/37 & https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/149
- Tom Alrich - CVE 5.2 addition of PURL - likely this year


## Attendees

- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Jon Moroney
- Immanuel Kunz
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)
- Tom Alrich
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
  - Immanuel: 2 PRs re last meeting's discussion (though Philippe is not attending today's meeting)
  - Tom: PURL in CVE May/June 2026?  Jon Moroney: Should be this year sometime if it happens.
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog, Immanuel Kunz, Jon Moroney, Steve Springett, Tom Alrich, Matt Rutkowski, and Salve Nilsen discussed several key topics including the integration of PURL into CVE and GitHub Security Advisories, progress on the new Docusaurus website, and the release strategy for PURL 1.0.
  - Tom Alrich raised concerns about PURL's adoption due to limited community awareness and lack of database support.
  - Michael Herzog detailed the new website's structure and content, aiming to establish packageurl.org as an official domain.
  - The group also deliberated versioning strategies for PURL types, project governance improvements, and the fundamental definition of a "package."
- **Meeting Agenda and Attendance** Michael Herzog initiated the meeting by outlining two main topics: a new website version and the release strategy for purl-spec. Immanuel Kunz added two PRs for discussion (00:00:00). Tom Alrich expressed a concern about the incorporation of PURL into CVE and the timeline for its adoption (00:02:03).
- **CVE and PURL Integration** Tom Alrich raised concerns about the integration of PURL into CVE, specifically the timeline and the CVE community's general awareness of PURL. Jon Moroney clarified that the 5.2 spec, which includes PURL, should be released by the end of the year, potentially allowing CNAs to use PURL in CVE records soon (00:02:03) (00:07:23). Jon also explained that there is only one live CVE spec version at a time, meaning all CNAs are forced to update, which simplifies adoption somewhat (00:03:07).
- **PURL Adoption Challenges and Proof of Concept** Tom Alrich highlighted that while PURL will be in the CVE spec, its practical usability is limited due to the CVE community's ignorance of PURL and the lack of vulnerability databases supporting it. Jon Moroney noted that the OSV database already supports PURLs and ingests CVEs (00:07:23). Tom proposed a proof of concept to line up databases, enable CNAs to create dummy CVE records with PURL, and facilitate end-user lookup, along with necessary training and promotion (00:08:38). Salve Nilsen added that the CHAOSS community ([https://chaoss.community/](https://chaoss.community/)) is conducting a gap analysis on package metadata, which includes Package-URLs, indicating progress towards broader adoption (00:10:30).
- **GHSA and PURL Integration** Steve Springett inquired about supporting PURL in GitHub Security Advisories (GHSAs) (00:04:06). Jon Moroney expressed skepticism about this happening soon, citing engineering priorities and layoffs at GitHub. However, Jon noted that GitHub's ecosystems are adaptable to PURL and offered to help create a translator (00:05:15). Jon provided an example of how to manually embed a PURL into a GHSA, highlighting it as a potential workaround for communities (00:13:09).
- **Website Development and Vision** Michael Herzog provided an update on the new Docusaurus website, currently hosted on DreamHost, which focuses on publishing specification information and has removed non-essential content like blogs and carousels (00:13:59). The goal is to establish packageurl.org as an official domain, and there's an ongoing discussion about whether to use a subdomain for schemas (00:15:07). Michael shared a barebones site map in Excel to organize content and discussed the structure, including sections for overall project information, the PURL specification, participation, and an "About" section (00:16:10) (00:19:52).
- **PURL Specification Documentation** Michael Herzog detailed the PURL Specification section of the new website, explaining that it consolidates various documents from the /docs folder of the GitHub repo. This section aims to reproduce the content of the now-deprecated RST file ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst)) and includes information beyond the standard, such as how to build and parse a PURL, and an introduction to PURL types (00:17:16). The intent is to use json-schema-for-humans for an interactive representation of the schema, similar to CycloneDX (00:18:35).
- **Website Feedback and Next Steps** Matt Rutkowski expressed appreciation for Docusaurus' features but noted that the homepage real estate could be used more effectively with visual elements like animated GIFs (00:22:35). Michael Herzog agreed on the need for a more engaging homepage and suggested dedicated meetings to discuss website design and content (00:23:40). The immediate focus is on publishing existing content and defining requirements for a "minimum viable website" (00:25:08).
- **Standardization Process and Website Content** Michael Herzog clarified that the website would not host draft standards but would reference the Ecma site for official information, as the Ecma number will be assigned upon General Assembly ratification (00:26:57). He also mentioned an ongoing RFC to force-merge documentation changes and typos to accelerate progress (00:28:05). John Horan continues to work on the website, with Michael planning to create more specific issues in the packageurl.org repo for commentary (00:29:03).
- **Release Strategy for PURL 1.0** Michael Herzog initiated a discussion on the release strategy for PURL 1.0, noting that the Ecma standard draft is nearly finalized, pending the schema URL (00:29:03). He suggested treating the standard's version as the primary release number and considering sub-versions for future updates (00:30:02). Jon Moroney and Salve Nilsen both advocated for versioning PURL types independently to account for breaking changes (00:30:59). Steve Springett suggested adopting semantic versioning for PURL types to communicate changes in an automated way (00:32:06).
- **Ecma Standard and Versioning** Steve Springett explained that Ecma documents do not change their number but rather their "edition" (00:33:17). Jon Moroney provided the Rust language's "Editions" model as an example ([https://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/editions/index.html](https://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/editions/index.html)), where Editions allow for breaking changes, while the discrete version number increments continuously. Michael Herzog recalled that Philipe Ombredanne was opposed to versioning PURL types, but recognized the need to discuss it, particularly if versioning is incorporated into the schema (00:34:14). Steve noted that a release could occur before Ecma ratification (00:35:08).
- **PURL Type Versioning Discussion** Michael Herzog highlighted the tension between versioning individual PURL types and collectively versioning the entire set of PURL types, similar to SPDX's license list (00:36:09). He noted that the best approach depends on whether the primary use case involves single PURL types or tools recognizing multiple types, and the rate of churn (00:37:08). Steve Springett suggested that different approaches might be suitable for license lists versus PURL types (00:36:09). Michael plans to alert Philipe and create an issue in the purl-spec repo to strategize on this (00:37:08).
- **Project Governance and Working Groups** Michael Herzog discussed the need for improved project governance, including revisiting and triaging issues and PRs (00:42:51). He proposed establishing working groups for specific areas, such as the test suite and PURL types, to handle backlogs and leverage volunteer expertise (00:44:04). Steve Springett echoed this, suggesting a need for a system where the community can reach consensus without relying on a single "blocker" (00:47:10).
- **Addressing Governance and Future Structure** Steve Springett suggested that a foundation, such as OWASP, could provide the necessary governance, with committees and working groups to ensure accountability and progress on areas like PURL types (00:49:15). Michael Herzog mentioned the potential for the AboutCode Foundation to serve as a steward, as it is already securing funding for PURL-related work (00:50:31). Michael also highlighted the need to address conflicts of interest in governance, such as an admin submitting their own PURL type (00:52:31).
- **Definition of a Package and PURL Types** Jon Moroney brought up the underlying question of "what is a package," which needs to be addressed to define the criteria for assessing PURL types. He cited CVE as an example of a failed product that attempted to deliver similar value to PURL, suggesting it could inform the definition of a package (00:53:26). Jon gave an example of a GitHub Action PURL type that he believed should not have been opened, as GitHub Actions are already covered by the 'github' repo type, emphasizing the need for reasoned analysis and clear philosophy in governance (00:54:34).
- **Namespace Immutability and Identifiers** Michael Herzog and Jon Moroney discussed the immutability of namespaces, with Michael Herzog suggesting that while the domain might change, the namespace could remain constant. Jon proposed a deterministic method for generating identifiers, such as a hash, to ensure consistent output given the same input bits. Michael Herzog acknowledged the concept but noted that hashes are a distinct topic, while Jon clarified they were not advocating for hashes but for a reliable, independent way to derive unique identifiers (00:57:06).
- **Meeting Wrap-up and Website Development** Michael Herzog announced the meeting was nearing its end and planned to create issues to capture discussion points, including release planning, PURL type governance, and website development. He mentioned that the website's technical foundation, developed by Matt Rutkowski's team, appears workable, and John Horan has contributed to its implementation. Michael Herzog also expressed interest in finding someone to enhance the homepage's impact (00:57:51).
- The meeting was adjourned.
