# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-08-06

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- GitHub project board â€“ https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
- Demonstration of new PackageURL website prototype (Matt R)
- Specification license (Michael H) see https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/489
- Update on purl-spec repo reorganization (Michael H)
- Created https://github.com/package-url/packageurl.org

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jon Moroney
- Tom Alrich
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Sergey Epifanov
- Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali, IBM Intern
- Ralf Duli, IBM Intern
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
  - Michael: see agenda
  - Matt: intro for website demo
- Summary
  - Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali and Ralf Duli presented a first draft of the PURL website, showcasing its features, performance metrics, and a proposed logo, which Philippe Ombredanne suggested be put to a community vote.
  - The participants discussed future website enhancements, including adding a "getting started" section and making it a central documentation hub for purl-spec and vers-spec, with Michael Herzog envisioning it as a "package URL website" hosted in a new repository.
  - Michael Herzog also provided updates on the PURL specification's licensing, the reorganization of spec files, an outreach plan for PURL type changes, and the upcoming v0.90 spec promotion to the 2025-08-21 TC54 meeting.
- **Meeting Start and Agenda** Philippe Ombredanne opened the meeting by welcoming attendees and reminding them of the code of conduct, noting that meeting notes are tracked in a Google Doc and committed to the repository (00:00:00). They then facilitated a quick agenda review, with Michael Herzog confirming license updates and reorg plans, and Matt Rutkowski confirming their presentation with Ralf and Abul (00:00:54).
- **Website Introduction and Demonstration** Matt Rutkowski introduced Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali and Ralf Duli, who developed a website for PURL (00:02:15). Abul shared their screen to present the first draft of the website, showcasing the main page, popular product packages, a draft logo, and a working footer with related specifications and standardization links (00:04:17).
- **Website Features and Feedback** Abul highlighted that the website includes PURL specifications and types, allowing users to browse through them (00:05:21). Matt explained that they discussed linking to an automatically-generated index for documentation pages after a recent PR merge, but did not have time to implement it for this demo (00:06:30).
- **Website Performance and Usability** Abul and Ralf presented the Lighthouse page, demonstrating the website's performance metrics, including a "homestead" performance metric, 96% on best practices, and 92% on SEO, noting significant improvements from 50% previously (00:06:30). They mentioned addressing caching issues to achieve good performance and planning to monitor render-blocking requests related to CSS and React components (00:07:24).
- **Initial Feedback and Logo Discussion** Philippe praised the website and expressed their liking for the hybrid logo, a cat with a pearl (00:07:24). However, they suggested that the logo should be put to a community vote for final decision (00:08:14).
- **Automated Markdown Generation** Philippe proposed an assignment for Abul and Ralf to improve the current Python script that generates markdown from JSON for package types. They suggested using templates instead of string manipulation to generate the markdown needed for the website, as "the markdown you need is the markdown we want" (00:08:14). Matt affirmed that this relates to the index file and acknowledged the interns' limited time, aiming to get the current work as a pull request and open issues for future improvements, including Philippe's suggestion (00:09:16).
- **Discussion of Markdown File Granularity** Michael and Steve Springett debated the granularity of markdown files. Steve argued for individual files to improve search results and provide more context for AI tools (00:10:58), while Matt acknowledged the need to consider both Google indexing and internal website search functionalities (00:11:52). Michael emphasized that breaking files apart aids manageability on the repository side (00:13:34).
- **Future Website Enhancements and Documentation Hub** Steve suggested adding a "getting started" or "tools" section to the website, as it currently focuses on specifications and PURL types (00:11:52). Michael Herzog stated their plan for the website to become the central documentation hub for purl-spec and vers-spec, with a dedicated documentation section that will be populated with granular markdown files converted from existing RST files (00:12:47). They anticipate using Docusaurus to create a table of contents for the documentation (00:13:34).
- **Website Scope and Repository Location** Michael expressed their vision for the website to be a "package URL website" rather than solely a "purl-spec website," encompassing purl-spec, vers-spec, and other related elements. They suggested creating a new repository for the website under "package-url" instead of "purl-spec" (00:15:00). Philippe agreed with the idea of a separate repository and adding references to PURL implementations, potentially including a leaderboard based on Matt Donoughe's PURL survey (00:15:48).
- **Website Hosting and CI/CD** Abul confirmed that moving the website to a new repository would be straightforward. Matt discussed setting up GitHub Actions for CI to automate builds, while still requiring a manual publishing step by an administrator (00:17:13). Philippe stressed the importance of local build capabilities without external CI dependency (00:18:04).
- **Internship End Dates and Future Contributions** Abul confirmed they have about four weeks left in their IBM placement, with Ralf having two weeks remaining (00:19:00). Philippe and Michael invited them to continue contributing on a community basis for "fame and glory" after their internships, which Abul indicated they were open to (00:19:53) (00:21:42). Jon Moroney suggested that fresh eyes like theirs would be valuable in identifying ambiguities or typos in the spec documentation (00:22:56).
- **Website Repository Creation and Access** Philippe created a new packageurl.org repository (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl.org) and invited Matt and Ralf as admins, with plans to invite Abul as well (00:26:41). Michael suggested adding a `robots.txt` file to temporarily disallow indexing and spidering by search engines until the site is more fully developed (00:27:43).
- **License Discussion for PURL Spec** Michael brought up the ongoing discussion about licensing for the PURL specification. They summarized the issue: MIT is suitable for software, but not ideal for other content, with Ecma copyright applying to specific sections. The proposal is to use Apache for non-Ecma content, as it is more suitable for documentation, or alternatively, use a CC BY 4.0 license for non-code artifacts (00:34:12).
- **Reorganization of Spec Files and Git History** Michael provided an update on the ongoing reorganization, stating that the PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst and PURL-TYPES.rst files will be broken into markdown files, and the RST files will be retained in the repo for a period with redirects (00:39:42). Philippe explained that they will use "git fu" and "octopus merge" techniques to preserve line-level history when splitting files into multiple markdown files (00:40:44).
- **Outreach Plan for PURL Type Changes** Michael stated that he, John Horan and their team are analyzing new and changed PURL type requests to develop an outreach plan (00:42:07). The plan involves reaching out to original authors to help them with pull requests, given the involved discussions in past issues (00:43:06). Michael also mentioned that he and John plan to meet with the SPDX tech team to update them on the changes (00:44:03).
- **Prioritizing PURL Types and Governance Ideas** Michael discussed the need for a priority list for adding PURL types and developing governance criteria to determine what constitutes a valid PURL type (00:45:08). Philippe noted that some accepted package types, like .qpkg, lack resolution to download URLs, making them non-actionable and requiring more information from upstream (00:46:12).
- **Python Library Updates and Versioning** Philippe mentioned that a maintainer for the packageurl-python library is updating it to the new spec and test suite, which will serve as a template for other libraries (00:45:08). They also merged a VERS test schema (https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/blob/main/schemas/vers-test.schema.json) to facilitate implementation and porting of tests (00:46:12). Michael emphasized the September 1 deadline for freezing the purl-spec repository at v0.90, aiming for a v1.0 release to Ecma (00:48:18).
- **TC54 Meeting and Spec Promotion** Steve Springett and Michael discussed promoting the v0.90 spec to the TC54 meeting on 2025-08-21, anticipating no further changes to the spec after v0.90 (00:51:04). Philippe confirmed their availability for the meeting (00:52:08).
- The meeting was adjourned.
