# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-10-01

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Website [packageurl.org](http://packageurl.org) update (Michael)
- Review proposed schema changes (Michael)
  - [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690)
  - [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/692](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/692)
- Review version scheme for purl-spec and PURL types (Michael) [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/689](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/689)

## Attendees

- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Immanuel Kunz
- Jon Moroney
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Joshua Kugler
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
  - Immanuel: PR â€“ [https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/pull/37/files](https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/pull/37/files), [https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/160](https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/160)
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog opened the community meeting, providing updates on previous meetings and website progress, and announced the promotion of the PURL 1.0 standard by TC54, freezing its schema.
  - Jon Moroney volunteered to review PR 37, which Immanuel Kunz explained originated from another PR in univers, and discussed default version types and distro namespaces with Michael Herzog and Salve Nilsen.
  - Michael Herzog discussed schema change formalization, governance transition, and versioning strategies for the PURL spec, types, and schemas with Jon Moroney, Salve Nilsen, and John Horan.
  - Salve Nilsen proposed a third URL schema for capabilities.
- **Community Meeting Minutes** Michael Herzog welcomed everyone to the meeting, noting Philippe Ombredanne's absence due to a conference engagement. He informed the group that the previous Friday's meeting, initially planned as a TG2 meeting, was instead held as a community meeting due to Philippe's absence, and its minutes are available (00:00:00).
- **PR 37 Review** Immanuel Kunz requested feedback on their open PR, specifically PR 37, which Michael Herzog confirmed was the only open PR for vers-spec (00:01:06). Michael Herzog expressed their personal approval of the PR but acknowledged not being knowledgeable enough in the details and stated that a reviewer besides Philippe was needed (00:02:07). Jon Moroney volunteered to review PR 37 and requested a day or two to provide meaningful feedback (00:02:57).
- **Lexicographical Order Version Type** Jon Moroney inquired if PR 37's goal was to establish a broad-based, usable lexicographical order version type for various package managers like Pypi or npm. Michael Herzog confirmed the objective was to define general version schemes for widespread use, not to dictate their specific application (00:02:57).
- **PR 37 Context and Testing** Immanuel Kunz explained that PR 37 originated from another PR in univers, where they had already implemented the concept, and Philippe had requested further specification (00:02:57). Jon committed to checking for any specific Python quirks in UTF ordering and sharing historical documents for general knowledge, anticipating the current approach would likely be fine (00:04:09). Michael Herzog requested Immanuel Kunz to reapply the changes from VERSION-RANGE-SPEC.rst to VERSION-RANGE-SPEC.md due to file migration (00:05:05).
- **Default Version Type for PURL Types** Jon raised a question about whether it makes sense to have a default version type for each PURL type, similar to how npm enforces semantic versioning (00:05:05). Salve highlighted that CPAN cannot have a default version specification due to its multiple versioning methods, and it is up to each author to decide. Michael Herzog confirmed that no specific ticket existed yet for default version types, acknowledging it as an open question (00:06:07).
- **Distro Namespaces and Registered Values** Michael Herzog discussed proposed schema change ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690)), which suggests adding "registered values" for distro namespaces like Debian and RPM, noting that while it makes sense for distros, it would not be practical for dynamic namespaces like npm (00:19:01). Jon questioned whether these known values should be defined in terms of a registry location (00:21:26). Michael Herzog clarified that the current request focuses on the namespace part, which might affect qualifiers, and a similar topic about registered qualifiers is not yet in the ticket (00:22:23).
- **Handling Unregistered Namespaces** Michael Herzog addressed the challenge of handling syntactically correct but unregistered key-value pairs, suggesting a warning or informational message rather than a hard error to avoid rejecting new, unregistered namespaces. Jon expressed concern about allowing unregistered namespaces, as it could lead to interpretation conflicts if new distros adopt names already used in existing PURLs (00:22:23) (00:26:09). Salve clarified that the aim is to allow permissionless innovation while providing an informational warning for unregistered types or namespaces, guiding users to register them (00:26:09).
- **Schema Change Formalization and Governance** Michael Herzog indicated that any schema change, whether part of Ecma or not, should undergo a TG2 vote to formalize the process (00:20:26). He outlined a transition from Philippe as a "benevolent dictator" to a more formal technical advisory committee or similar body for governance (00:27:50). Michael Herzog is seeking comments on a proposal to break down the large, single VERS specification file into more manageable, topical files, similar to the PURL spec, to improve readability for new users (00:08:26).
- **Website Update and Schema Display** Michael Herzog provided an update on the website, stating that a functional site with a certificate has been set up on DreamHost, and packageurl.org now redirects to GitHub (00:09:17). He noted that while the site is barebones, the infrastructure is in place for quick content publishing, and schema files are now available on the website (00:10:20). John Horan demonstrated the json-schema-for-humans display of the schemas, which aims to present schema information in an accessible, interactive HTML format (00:11:27).
- **PURL spec Website Improvements** Michael Herzog shared a link to an issue containing sub-issues related to the current site map, inviting comments on the header, footer, and menu items to define the minimum viable site content. He expressed the need for a dedicated meeting to finalize the website's content and structure, suggesting a plan to display "under construction" for incomplete sections rather than omitting them (00:15:41). Michael Herzog confirmed that there are no technical issues with the website setup and encouraged the community to submit new issues or PRs to the packageurl.org repo dedicated to the website ([https://github.com/package-url/packageurl.org](https://github.com/package-url/packageurl.org)) (00:17:45).
- **PURL 1.0 Standard and Schema Freezing** Michael Herzog announced that the PURL 1.0 standard was voted for promotion by TC54 at their last meeting, officially freezing the PURL type definition schema and the PURL types index schema as legitimate 1.0 versions. He then introduced two new issues, 690 and 692 ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690) and	[https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/692](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/692)), which propose schema changes despite the freezing of the 1.0 standard (00:17:45). Issue 692 proposes a new test type called "validation test" with a method to handle error, warning, and info messages (00:20:26).
- **Versioning Strategy for Spec, Types, and Schemas** Michael Herzog initiated a discussion on the overall versioning scheme for the PURL spec itself, the PURL types, and the schemas, noting that a clean strategy is currently lacking (00:29:01). He suggested adopting a generic "SemVer idea," where major versions indicate breaking changes, minor versions indicate normative changes, and patch levels indicate editorial changes (00:30:01). Jon Moroney proposed aligning the major version bumps of the spec with ECMA standard editions to avoid confusion, to which Michael Herzog acknowledged the idea but highlighted the current independence of the numbering schemes (00:31:11).
- **PURL Type Definitions Versioning** Michael Herzog presented two main approaches for versioning PURL type definitions: individual versioning for each PURL type or a collection-based approach where changes are bundled periodically (00:34:53). Jon leaned towards the bundle approach, believing it would be easier for consumers and toolmakers (00:37:13). Salve suggested allowing individual package type stewards to decide on patch-level versioning, while major and minor versions would be controlled by the governance body, enabling quicker development (00:38:16).
- **Schema Versioning and Urgency** Michael Herzog raised the immediate issue of schema versioning, particularly for unfrozen schemas, suggesting they be reset to a version like 0.9 to indicate incompleteness, as schema IDs currently say "1.0," implying a level of certainty they do not yet possess (00:35:56). Jon suggested using 0.2.0 as a starting point for unfrozen schemas to allow for future iterations before reaching a 1.0 version (00:43:56). Michael Herzog also acknowledged the importance of beefing up the test suite and planned to create a project to collect related tickets (00:44:44).
- **Third URL Schema for Capabilities/Libraries** Salve Nilsen proposed adding a third URL schema for capabilities or libraries to the agenda for future discussion, noting that it had been previously filed under the vers-spec issue tracker (00:46:34). They emphasized the need for this schema to bridge the gap between requirements and resolved dependencies, particularly for ecosystems to refer to features rather than just packages (00:47:30) (00:49:10). Michael Herzog suggested promoting this topic to the TG2 meeting agenda for a more formal discussion, acknowledging its potential significance (00:50:02) (00:52:15).
- The meeting was adjourned.
