# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-08-20

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct [https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- GitHub project board – [https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1)
- Website update \- https://package-url.github.io/packageurl.org/
- Immanuel VERS
  - [https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15](https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15)
  - [https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148](https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148) \- merged
- Jon \- [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/552](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/552)
- Michael \-Preview of Ecma Standard documents
  - [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/610](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/610)  \- Sections 1-5
  - [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/609](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/609)  \- Section 6-7 (human readable schemas)
  - [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/602](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/602)  \- Annex A (the schema files)

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jon Moroney
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Sergey Epifanov
- Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali, IBM Intern
- Ralf Duli, IBM Intern
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- Immanuel Kunz
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
  - Michael: see agenda
  - Immanuel: [https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15](https://-ithub.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15) and [https://github.com/-boutcode-org/univers/pull/148](https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148)
  - Jon Moroney: Ruby PURL type update: [https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/552](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/552)
- Summary
  - Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali and Ralf Duli presented their automated website deployment using GitHub Actions, while Matt Rutkowski suggested changing the trigger to a per-release basis.  Steve Springett raised concerns about GitHub Pages' security, though Philippe Ombredanne and Michael Herzog clarified the plan to use PackageURL.org as a pointer.
  - Michael Herzog reported significant progress on website content development, including PURL documentation and dynamic HTML output from the json-schema-for-humans tool, and discussed trademark searches, with Matt Rutkowski inquiring about OWASP support.  The discussion also covered the PURL project's affiliation with CycloneDX, with Philippe Ombredanne emphasizing the need for a thorough discussion.
  - Philippe Ombredanne announced the merging of Immanuel Kunz's PR 148 ([https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148](https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148)) and discussed issue 15 ([https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15](https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15)) proposing a \`libversion\` version scheme. Salve Nilsen inquired about supporting formalized versioning schemes, and Jon Moroney sought clarification on Ruby gem qualifiers.
  - Philippe Ombredanne raised the idea of a centralized repository for package ecosystem data, to which Jon Moroney suggested a survey and blog post, and Salve Nilsen elaborated on the need for a central map of tools supporting PURLs.
  - Michael Herzog presented the generated Ecma standard documents, showed the human-readable schema for the PURL type definition, and noted that the current version is not yet final for submission, with Steve Springett providing feedback and confirming Ecma-related fixes. Michael Herzog and Steve Springett also discussed the PURL documentation, including fixing header requirements and preparing a draft for TC54, with Steve Springett emphasizing the need for pre-reading for the September review of standards.
- **Website Deployment Automation** Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali and Ralf Duli have automated website deployment using GitHub Actions, enabling automatic builds and updates on GitHub Pages with every push to the 'main' branch (00:01:05). Matt Rutkowski suggested changing the trigger from PRs to a per-release basis, limiting publishing to release managers for security and control (00:03:37).
- **Security Concerns with GitHub Pages** Steve Springett raised concerns about abysmal security header scores when using GitHub Pages due to its lack of support for certain security features like Content Security Policy (CSP – see, e.g., [https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Content\_Security\_Policy\_Cheat\_Sheet.html](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Content_Security_Policy_Cheat_Sheet.html)), especially if interactive elements like React components are introduced (00:04:52). Philippe Ombredanne and Michael Herzog clarified that the current plan is to use PackageURL.org to point to the GitHub Pages, allowing for migration to a more secure hosting solution later if needed (00:06:56).
- **Website Content Development** Michael Herzog reported that significant new content, particularly documentation related to the PURL documentation in MD files, has been developed and reorganized for flexible display across multiple pages. They anticipate providing a substantial amount of documentation soon, with automation significantly aiding this process (00:07:59).
- **Website Documentation and Schema Display** Michael Herzog discussed the progress on displaying documentation online, including a dynamic HTML output from the json-schema-for-humans tool, which will allow users to navigate through the schema. Matt Rutkowski suggested combining MD files to leverage Docusaurus's indexing features (00:08:55).
- **Logo and Name Trademark Search** Matt Rutkowski inquired about OWASP's support for trademark searches for the PURL logo and name, similar to what the Apache Foundation provides (00:08:55). Michael Herzog stated that AboutCode does not have this resource and that the team would need to conduct "amateur" trademark searches themselves, while also noting that the project's affiliation with OWASP is still somewhat hybrid (00:09:58).
- **Project Affiliation and Future Discussions** The discussion highlighted an unresolved question about whether the PURL project will be unified under CycloneDX (an OWASP project) or remain a separate entity, with Michael Herzog indicating that no definitive decision has been made. Philippe Ombredanne emphasized the importance of a thorough discussion on this matter (00:10:47). Michael Herzog confirmed that the Ecma standard would be the overall authority for the spec at the moment (00:11:49).
- **univers PR and Repology Discussion** Philippe Ombredanne announced that Immanuel Kunz's PR 148 for univers ([https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148](https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/148)) was merged. They then initiated a discussion on issue 15 ([https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15](https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/issues/15)) regarding the use of Repology's \`libversion\` as a scheme in univers, which is a tool for comparing versions without ecosystem-specific knowledge (00:13:41). Philippe Ombredanne and Jon Moroney expressed concern that \`libversion\` acts more as a heuristic fallback than a formal specification, particularly due to its reliance on extensive exception rules external to the library itself (00:15:16) (00:18:02).
- **Libversion as a Fallback Option** Immanuel Kunz acknowledged the point that \`libversion\` is not an explicit schema but rather an implicit one. Philippe Ombredanne proposed considering \`libversion\` as a last-resort fallback option to be selected as an argument in a function rather than a core scheme within univers (00:19:22). Immanuel Kunz agreed to discuss this with Thomas Schmidt, who originally opened the issue, and explore integrating \`libversion\` as a fallback in their existing univers implementation (00:22:19).
- **Formalized Versioning Schemes** Salve Nilsen asked whether univers could support formalized versioning schemes like calendar versioning or decimal versioning, similar to how it handles semantic versioning (00:23:34). Philippe Ombredanne affirmed that adding support for such schemes is possible and desirable as long as there is a demonstrable use case, while cautioning against adding exotic schemes with minimal real-world usage (00:25:04).
- **Ruby Gem Qualifiers** Jon Moroney sought clarification on the use of qualifiers in Ruby gem PURLs, noting that the current wording might imply that only Java gems can use them (00:27:55). Jon Moroney committed to finding documentation on Ruby gem enumerations and linking it to the relevant PR (00:29:12).
- **Centralized Package Ecosystem Data** Philippe Ombredanne raised the idea of creating a centralized repository for useful data about package ecosystems, such as enumerations for Ruby gems or known PyPI equivalents, to serve as a shared knowledge base for tool builders and reduce the invention of redundant solutions (00:29:12). Jon Moroney suggested starting with a survey and blog post to encourage community contributions to this repository (00:31:49).
- **Tooling Support for PURLs** Salve Nilsen elaborated on the need for a central map of tools that support PURLs, which would enable package managers to resolve dependencies by pointing to the appropriate installation tool for a given PURL, regardless of its ecosystem (00:32:48). Philippe Ombredanne mentioned the existence of a "meta package manager" ([https://github.com/kdeldycke/meta-package-manager](https://github.com/kdeldycke/meta-package-manager)) that takes PURLs as input and can "shell" out to different package managers based on the package type, and Python PEP 725 ([https://peps.python.org/pep-0725/](https://peps.python.org/pep-0725/)) for specifying external dependencies using PURLs (00:35:07).
- **Ecma Standard Document Generation** Michael Herzog presented the generated Ecma standard documents, explaining that the large RST file was broken into multiple documents, some directly related to the standard and others shared with the broader specification (00:35:07). They detailed the three key pieces being prepared: sections 1 to 5, a human-readable schema, and an annex containing the literal schema (00:36:22).
- **Human-Readable Schema and Feedback** Michael Herzog showed the human-readable schema for the PURL type definition, largely generated using json-schema-for-humans, and requested feedback on its representation (00:37:47). Steve Springett provided feedback on formatting, suggesting changes to headers and the removal of blank or unclear definition columns in tables for Ecma compliance (00:44:47).
- **Ecma Standard Content and Automation** Michael Herzog acknowledged that the current drafts of the standard documents contain manual edits but the goal is to automate as much of the generation process as possible in the long run (00:43:45). Steve Springett confirmed that numbering would be handled automatically by CSS and suggested using JSON path for property paths, which is supported by the json-schema-for-humans  tool via custom themes (00:49:00) (00:52:49).
- **Final Steps for Ecma Standard Submission** Michael Herzog stated that the current version of the standard is not yet final for submission to TC54 due to pending creative work on the human-readable schema and test sections (00:52:02). Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that the full schema will be included as a JSON appendix (00:56:35). Steve Springett indicated that they would be making some Ecma-related fixes to the documents, such as changing "must/shall" language and "Britishizing" certain terms, without altering the standard's content (00:54:46).
- **PURL Documentation and Review** Michael Herzog and Steve Springett discussed the current status of the PURL documentation, including fixing header requirements, removing deprecated definitions, and ensuring an Oxford English check (00:57:36). Steve Springett emphasized the need to provide TC54 with a draft version of PURL within the next week to facilitate efficient review of the three standards in September, even if sections six and seven are incomplete (01:00:15). They also clarified that sections 6 and 7 both need to be reworked, and Michael Herzog confirmed that he and John Horan will continue moving it forward with Steve Springett's feedback (00:59:19).
- **Meeting Process and Standards Review** Steve Springett highlighted the importance of pre-reading for the September review of three standards by TC54 to expedite discussions. Philippe Ombredanne recalled a previous, more formal presentation process for specifications to TC54, but Steve Springett clarified that for PURL, the work is delegated to the Task Group, making the process slightly different (01:00:15). Michael Herzog confirmed the plan to manage files in sections (one to five, six, seven, and the annex) for easier updates (01:01:19).
- The meeting was adjourned.
