# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-10-29

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
  - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Michael - Ecma update
- Michael - website update (https://package-url.github.io/packageurl.org/)

## Attendees

- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Joshua Kugler
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog convened the community meeting to discuss a website update, Ecma matters, and project governance, clarifying that the meeting adheres to the Ecma code of conduct.
  - Key talking points included the concern Michael Herzog raised regarding the term "ECMA-262 dialect" when referencing regex and whether the ECMA-262 reference should be normative, which Steve Springett agreed to investigate.
  - Michael Herzog updated the participants on the website's infrastructure, confirmed Philippe acquired both `packageurl.org` and `package-url.org`, and proposed a minimum viable website launch strategy, which Steve Springett supported.
  - Discussions also centered on refining the "tool center" to clearly distinguish between tools that consume and produce Package-URLs, as suggested by Salve J. Nilsen, and the consensus to replace the "adopters" category with a list of other specifications or standards that support PURL, a suggestion from Steve Springett.
  - Michael Herzog, Salve J. Nilsen, and Steve Springett agreed on the need to address succession planning, security vulnerability processes, and formalize project governance, including the rules for managing pull requests.
- **Meeting Context and Logistics** Michael Herzog convened the community meeting, clarifying that it is not an official TC54-TG2 meeting but operates under the Ecma code of conduct (00:00:00).
- **Agenda Topics and Ecma Update** Michael Herzog introduced the primary agenda topic: a website update and related issues, and added an Ecma update (00:00:00). Steve Springett suggested adding project governance to the backlog for future discussion. The Ecma update included a question about using ECMA-262 as a normative reference, specifically concerning the term "ECMA-262 dialect" used when referring to regex (00:01:06). Michael Herzog expressed concern about this terminology since ECMA-262 does not define a "dialect," a term potentially inherited from JSON schema (00:02:21).
- **Reference to ECMA-262** Michael Herzog requested Steve Springett's input on whether the reference to ECMA-262 should be normative or non-normative, as this text appears frequently in the permitted characters discussion within the schema (00:02:21). Steve Springett agreed to check the relevant thread regarding the reference. Michael Herzog noted that the Ecma review process involves a "fine tooth comb" examination of the documents (00:03:19).
- **Website Infrastructure and Domain Names** Michael Herzog provided an update on the website, mentioning that they are currently using GitHub's github.io domain as the home, with a DreamHost backup. The plan is to reverse this setup when going live, making DreamHost primary. Philippe acquired the rights to both `packageurl.org` (no hyphen) and `package-url.org` (with hyphen). Michael Herzog suggested using `package-url.org` for the official website, though the schemas currently refer to the no-hyphen version (00:04:06).
- **Minimum Viable Website Content** Based on prior discussions, Michael Herzog proposed a less ambitious, minimum viable website launch. This includes merging content planned for the "home" and "getting started" pages (00:05:46). The proposed live website would consist of a homepage, the reasonably complete PURL specification page, the VERS specification, schemas, and a simplified "about" page. The simplified "about" section would include information on meetings and contributions but omit formal governance and guiding principles (00:07:01). Steve Springett supported this minimum viable approach, noting that they can always return to an expanded "about" page later (00:08:20).
- **Website Functionality and PURL Type Documentation** John Horan has implemented an "edit this page" feature intended to take users directly to the core document file for pull requests, though some work remains to align it with how documentation is currently concatenated from multiple files (00:08:20). Michael Herzog stated that the registered PURL types feature is set to go, linking to the markdown file definition in the repo rather than external sites like Bitnami (00:09:41).
- **Tool Center Discussion** Michael Herzog introduced the "tool center", which lists implementations or software tools used to create, parse, or validate PURLs, emulating the CycloneDX model. This is distinct from "adopters," which are organizations using PURL as a standard without publishing specific PURL software (00:10:39) (00:13:01). John Horan is currently working on a modal to provide more detailed information for each tool. Michael Herzog also highlighted an issue where implementations are being named simply "purl" or "vers," suggesting a need to use the repository name as a namespace on the tool name for clarity (00:11:46).
- **Refining Tool Center and Adopters Distinction** Salve J. Nilsen suggested improving the tool center by clearly distinguishing between tools that consume and produce Package-URLs, as this signals where Package-URLs are being used for interoperability, such as in package installation tooling like `apt get install` (00:13:01). Steve Springett suggested replacing the "adopters" category with a list of "other specifications or standards that support PURL," like OSV, CycloneDX, or SPDX (00:20:27). Michael Herzog summarized the consensus to separate standard specifications (no software involved) from tools (any software handling PURL/VERS), and to make the tool center more granular by indicating if a tool consumes or produces PURL or VERS (00:23:01).
- **UX and Tool Center Attributes** Steve Springett shared that CycloneDX conducted extensive UX research over six to eight months, interviewing many people to determine desired attributes for their tool center (00:23:53). Michael Herzog acknowledged the need to agree on a list of functional attributes for the tool center but expressed confidence in following the CycloneDX general model (00:24:42) (00:28:45). John Horan and Michael Herzog are working on adding data to the tool's modal, including whether the tool supports VERS, PURL, or both (00:19:01) (00:24:42).
- **Website Issue Tracking and Versioning** Michael Herzog detailed their process for tracking website development using a master GitHub issue with sub-issues for pages, noting that they are narrowing the scope to the minimum viable website (00:25:36). Michael Herzog confirmed that versioning has been implemented in all schemas, with versions like 1.0 for PURL types and 0.1 for test schemas, ensuring consistency regardless of the website's status (00:28:45).
- **Website and PURL Type Updates** Salve J. Nilsen asked if the website automatically updates when new PURL types are accepted. Michael Herzog confirmed that the prototype website does not automatically update, as adding new types like Julia and Bazel is currently handled manually. A future item on the backlog is creating a pull request template for new PURL types, which will include questions about what icon to use (00:30:54) (00:34:32). John Horan clarified that the prototype website is immediately updated with each push to the 'main' branch of the packageurl.org repository (00:32:46).
- **Logo and Branding Discussion** Michael Herzog shared some icon ideas, including a simple design with a 'P' and 'URL', and a purple design resembling the periodic table (00:26:30) (00:47:50). Salve J. Nilsen advocated for outsourcing logo design and branding to professionals to ensure quality and professionalism (00:53:14). Michael Herzog acknowledged the cost constraints and agreed to add a branding discussion to the agenda for a future meeting, emphasizing the need for something distinctive (00:49:49) (00:52:33).
- **Documentation Style and Terminology** Michael Herzog noted the need for a style guide to standardize documentation, ensuring terminology like "PURL" is consistently capitalized unless used in a specific technical context to avoid confusion (00:50:40). They will prioritize consistency with conventions used in the Ecma submission (00:51:36).
- **Governance and Policy Considerations** Michael Herzog is manually tracking changes that would affect the standard (schema or normative text) in a GitHub project, with the intent that such changes must be approved at a TG2 meeting (00:37:05). Steve Springett stressed the need to discuss project governance and break it down into smaller issues, such as clarifying rules for managing pull requests (editorial vs. normative changes) and establishing processes for security vulnerability reporting and bug bounty programs (00:40:33) (00:42:30). The impact of AI, such as GitHub Copilot creating pull requests, was also raised as a policy concern (00:44:52).
- **Succession and Security Planning** Salve J. Nilsen suggested creating sunset and succession plans. Steve Springett noted that organizations like the Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF) provide templates for succession plans and organizational structure (00:43:26). He emphasized the importance of planning for succession and security vulnerability processes, given PURLâ€™s growing influence (00:42:30). Michael Herzog confirmed they need to formalize rules around approval processes, moving beyond "benevolent oligarchy," and finding best practices for handling contentious views, especially as adoption increases (00:39:40) (00:45:49).
- **Branding Resources and Guidelines** Michael Herzog and Salve J. Nilsen discussed the potential cost associated with a logo, with Michael noting that $1,000 is feasible, but $100,000 is not. Salve suggested that a target range for funding might be around six or seven thousand (00:57:34).  Salve provided a link to a resource page for "digital assets" that includes brand guidelines, which they described as constantly-updated and "super useful" and "truly an impressive branding work" (00:58:13). Michael acknowledged the importance of branding for the website but noted that decisions on elements like a branded favicon could potentially be deferred (00:58:13).
- **Meeting Conclusion and Next Steps** Michael Herzog concluded the meeting, noting that there were no further topics for immediate discussion. Michael confirmed having taken many notes to be converted into issues later that day and requested particular comments on the website issues (00:59:10).
- The meeting was adjourned.
