# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2026-01-21

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 17:00 to 18:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EST (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
  - 02:00 to 03:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski
- Jon Moroney
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog led the PURL community call, announcing that the main focus is structuring the VERS specification for submission to Ecma by early March, which will exclude the test schema but likely include a VERS schema and simplified terminology by removing the "version" prefix.
  - Michael Herzog and Philippe Ombredanne discussed the "missing PURLs" issue, reviewing Steve's scid proposal for proprietary software and the AboutCode organization's PURL registry for public code, noting that the AboutCode group secured a grant to build the registry prototype.
  - Jon Moroney raised concerns that scid's naming convention must allow all parties to arrive at the same name.
  - Matt Rutkowski clarified with Michael Herzog and Philippe Ombredanne that the original intent of the `subpath` syntax in Package-URL is to reference individual files within a package, and Matt Rutkowski agreed to submit a pull request to clarify this in the specification.
  - Jon Moroney also demonstrated a tool designed to simplify the expression of software vulnerabilities for security analysts by generating PURLs and abstracting raw commit data.
- **Meeting Logistics and Recording Policy** Michael Herzog welcomed attendees to the PURL community call and addressed the recording policy. The call is recorded for minutes creation, and the recordings will not be posted online but are available upon request for one month, after which the minutes become the proper record. Michael Herzog noted that the minutes for the previous meeting are not available but will be ready for the next meeting, and the Gemini minutes have been useful.
- **General Updates and Website Progress** Michael Herzog provided general updates, mentioning continued but slow progress on the website due to limited volunteer cycles. The team is applying improvements from the AboutCode organization's website, which is using the same approach, to the PURL site. Jon Moroney offered to demo a tool they are making that uses PURL, which was scheduled for the end of the meeting.
- **VERS Specification Development** Michael Herzog reported that the most significant current activity is the first serious attempt to structure VERS in the format of a specification, using ECMA-427 as a template. The document has been broken into six files, including "specification" and "introduction," with extensive rewriting to adhere to Ecma style. The goal is to have the VERS first edition standard ready for the Ecma general assembly on June 29th, requiring submission to Ecma by early March.
- **VERS Standard Content and Naming** Michael Herzog confirmed that the current plan is not to include the test schema in the VERS first edition standard, although a test schema and material exist. The most likely inclusion will be a schema for VERS itself, and the group is working on standardized notation, currently calling it a "VERS notation". Michael Herzog is considering removing the "version" prefix from component names like "version-scheme" and "version-constraints" to simplify terminology, suggesting names like "scheme" or "type" and "constraints".
- **Review Process and Documentation Updates** Michael Herzog stated that the updated specification will be ready for general review before the TG2 meeting in a week and a half, though Philippe Ombredanne has not yet reviewed it. After one more internal review round by Michael Herzog and John Horan, Philippe Ombredanne will be asked to review before a broader discussion. Once the spec is agreed upon, the website documentation will be updated to be easier to read, moving from a single file to a structured set of files under `docs/standard` that forms the basis for the Ecma spec.
- **Consolidating Discussions on Missing PURLs** Michael Herzog initiated a discussion on the "missing PURLs" issue, consolidating two major proposals in a master issue. The first is Steve Springett's scid (Software Component IDentification) proposal, intended for cases without a package manager and using a combination of domain name and vendor name for unique identification. The second proposal is the "PURL registry," a public registry approach being developed by the AboutCode organization, similar to claiming namespaces in CycloneDX or SPDX, with the kernel community and the ISO C++ ecosystem interested.
- **PURL Registry Prototype Funding and Context** Philippe Ombredanne confirmed that the AboutCode group has secured a small grant from NLnet, funded by the European Commission, to build the prototype for the PURL registry (00:11:00). Michael Herzog sees the scid and PURL registry proposals as complementary, with scid making sense for proprietary and internal software, while the registry addresses public code.
- **Ecma Planning and Pending Work** Michael Herzog confirmed that a second edition of the PURL standard is projected by the end of the year, but no changes are currently planned for the first edition by March. The TG2 meeting will continue to cover both PURL and VERS. A major pending item is rewriting the draft proposal for testing, focusing on general tests over type-specific tests and establishing a naming convention for atomic tests.
- **New PURL Types and Community Engagement** The rate of new PRs and issues for PURL has slowed, but the team is actively approving new PURL types, with yocto, opam, and otp recently approved. Michael Herzog expressed a need to re-engage the community and increase participation, which they suggested may be recovering from the holidays.
- **Google Summer of Code and ClearlyDefined Integration** Philippe Ombredanne noted that project ideas will be submitted under the AboutCode organization for Google Summer of Code, as there is insufficient time to apply as a separate organization. Philippe Ombredanne also shared that there is significant interest in adding Package-URL support to ClearlyDefined, a project under the Open Source Initiative that focuses on crowdsourcing metadata and licensing information for open-source packages. The goal is to make the project's data accessible via a Package-URL API to easily integrate the data (currently 70 terabytes of scans, probably closer to 20 terabytes after deduplication) for use cases like SBOM enrichment.
- **Policy on AI-Generated Contributions** Michael Herzog raised the need for a policy on AI-generated PRs and contributions due to the growing volume of low-quality submissions impacting the AboutCode vulnerability database. Michael Herzog also highlighted the need for guidelines on using tools like Copilot, citing an instance where an automated review was obstructive during a critical transition of the VERS rewrite.
- **Demo of Tool for Vulnerability Expression** Jon Moroney demonstrated a tool designed to simplify expressing a vulnerability for security researchers and analysts by focusing on commit data. The tool is intended to output CVE data in JSON format and eventually interface directly with the CVE API, abstracting the raw data from the analyst. Jon Moroney's goal is to improve data quality by making the task easier and reducing cognitive load, in contrast to tools like Vulnogram ([https://vulnogram.org/](https://vulnogram.org/)), which expose every field in the JSON. The tool is generating Package-URLs for the github type and aims to derive packages from provenance systems like Sigstore.
- **Discussion on scid and PURL Registry** Michael Herzog led a discussion on scid (Software Component IDentification) and the PURL registry, noting that scid proposes a two-part namespace (domain and vendor) for identifying software, particularly for suppliers and proprietary software. Philippe Ombredanne emphasized the need for a central repository (the registry) to provide unique naming and namespace assignments for public packages, akin to what is achieved by existing package managers like npm or PyPI. Michael Herzog presented a YAML example for the kernel, which Philippe Ombredanne suggested could be better done in JSON for tool processing.
- **Clarification on Subpath for Files** Matt Rutkowski requested clarification on the use of the `subpath` syntax in Package-URL, specifically to reference individual files within a package, which is necessary for the CycloneDX ML-BOM guide they are writing. Matt Rutkowski argued that the current specification is unclear, as `subpath` is not explicitly defined as a file, and affirmed that this need for finer-grain references to files, and potentially further into data sets or code snippets, is a general use case. Michael Herzog and Philippe Ombredanne both affirmed that using `subpath` to reference a file is the original and current intent.
- **Extending Package-URL for Finer-Grained References** Matt Rutkowski proposed extending PURL to enable diving deeper into a package, referencing functions, code snippets, or specific configuration files and test cases within data sets. Jon Moroney suggested that while `subpath` could cover files, finer-grained data like functions might be better handled as sidecar data or a separate format, but agreed that common use cases should be defined first on a GitHub issue. Matt Rutkowski committed to submitting a quick PR to clarify the `subpath` definition in the spec to explicitly include "file".
- **Repository and Process for Spec Standard Changes** Michael Herzog clarified the process for handling changes to the spec standard (ECMA-427), noting that discussions and preparation of changes should happen in the `purl-spec` repository, with any final PRs going through the Ecma repository. Since the spec standard was frozen at Edition One, they can track changes against the first release v1.0.0 of the `purl-spec` repo. Changes to files in the `standard docs/standard` folder that are normative require the TG2 process for agreement.
- **Subpath Discussion and Syntax** The discussion around subpath mostly concerns file or path to a file, with points of contention being how OS-dependent the syntax is, specifically related to forward and backward slashes. Philippe Ombredanne asserted that the specification has always been clear that POSIX path separators (forward slashes) should be used. Michael Herzog added that the controversy regarding subpath for a file has been around the exact syntax.
- **Concerns with scid Naming Convention** Jon Moroney raised a primary concern with the scid proposal, which Philippe Ombredanne had previously touched upon, emphasizing that the naming convention should allow both software producers and security researchers to arrive at the same name for the same product. Jon felt this was lacking until the idea of a registry or a subspec was introduced, pointing out that similar issues with the CPE specification led to non-unique identifiers because the spec was not concerned with the correctness of name choices. Philippe Ombredanne agreed that this is the essence, as otherwise it is easy to invent multiple different scids for the same package.
- **scid Adoption and Proprietary Software** Philippe Ombredanne suggested that getting "alpha project maintainers" like openssl, the kernel, and curl to use scid would help set a precedent and create a convention that others would mimic. Jon Moroney agreed that this would create a convention and noted that their concern is less about open-source projects, which they believe will figure it out, but more about proprietary software. Michael Herzog observed that for proprietary vendors, the necessary detail for an open-source project is unlikely to be public, so the identifier would need to be very pure and less granular.
- **Regulatory Context for Identifiers** Philippe Ombredanne highlighted that proprietary software vendors will need to produce SBOMs under the CRA (the European Union's Cyber Resilience Act), and regulatory bodies in Europe, such as those at ENISA, care about the correctness of identifiers. Philippe Ombredanne further mentioned an invitation to a working group by folks from ENISA to discuss package identifiers and SBOMs, where they stressed the importance of having correct identifiers in the SBOM. Michael Herzog emphasized that with vendor-specific products, the identifier points to a subdomain, and the detail an open-source project might include, such as the commit level, is not likely to be public for a commercial product.
- **Use of Qualifiers for Commercial Products** Michael Herzog explained that the concept of standard qualifiers exists, where qualifiers are recommended for use per PURL type, even if they are not absolute conformance items. They suggested that a vendor could define their own qualifiers to define their products. Matt Rutkowski confirmed that they received Michael Herzog's message regarding issue 785 ([https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/785](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/785)), and Michael Herzog concluded the meeting with a reminder of the upcoming TG2 meeting.
- The meeting was adjourned.
