# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2026-01-07

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 17:00 to 18:00 UTC
  - 18:00 to 19:00 CET (Europe/Brussels)
  - 12:00 to 13:00 EST (America/New_York)
  - 09:00 to 10:00 PST (America/Los Angeles)
  - 02:00 to 03:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items

- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md
- Website update - Michael
- Test update - Michael
- Proposed Git PURL Type - Jon

## Attendees

- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Jon Moroney
- Joshua Kugler
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes

- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Summary
  - Michael Herzog, Jon Moroney, John Horan, Joshua Kugler, Philippe Ombredanne, and Steve Springett discussed several updates and proposals, including website development featuring simplified design, completion of the PURL section documentation aligned with the ECMA-427 standard, and plans to standardize the VERS specification by March for June Ecma approval.
  - Key topics included handling commercial tools on the website by clearly marking their proprietary licenses, proposing a license change for the purl-spec and vers-spec repositories from MIT to Apache 2.0, and the need for a generic `git` PURL type to enhance tooling flexibility, which Michael Herzog agreed to track in a master issue.
  - Jon Moroney proposed creating a PR to update the documentation for the git type with clearer URLs, and Michael Herzog confirmed the meeting was concluding, with the group planning to convene again on Friday 2026-01-16 for the TG2 meeting.
- **Community Call Welcome and Minutes** Michael Herzog welcomed attendees to the community call, noting that they were facilitating for Philippe Ombredanne. They stated that Gemini was being used to record the call for minutes, and they referenced a previous discussion point from Jon Moroney about Linux's actions regarding CVES. Michael Herzog found the past minutes, particularly concerning the proposal for the git PURL type, very helpful.
- **Agenda Items and Participants** Michael Herzog asked for agenda items, with Jon suggesting a conversation about the git type. Philippe Ombredanne joined late and did not have additional agenda items, confirming the focus would be on updates and the git PURL type discussion.
- **Website Updates and Development** Michael Herzog provided updates on the website, which is being worked on and is available on staging using github.io. The website design has been simplified from the original layout. The PURL section is mostly complete and the text aligns with the ECMA-427 standard. They also put together a style guide under the community section to follow Ecma style conventions.
- **Website Features and PURL Type Documentation** Michael Herzog showed that the core specification information on the website matches section five of the standard. The website includes a PURL type grid display that links to generated documentation for each PURL type definition. They mentioned that they have logos for most PURL types, and John Horan is working on a template for adding new PURL types that will include a request for a logo.
- **VERS Specification and Standardization** The VERS side of the website currently only includes the MD file documentation, which Michael Herzog plans to break up into separate documents like the PURL section to make the information more digestible. This work is part of preparation for submission for standardization, with a target of having the work done no later than March for approval by the June Ecma general assembly.
- **Homepage and Specification Cards** The website homepage features a new card grid for specifications that embed PURL or VERS. The card system is organized into two groupings: specifications and tools, which are currently listed alphabetically. Michael Herzog noted that the listed tools are all open-source, and they need to determine how to handle commercial tools.
- **Handling Commercial Tools and Licensing in the Website** Philippe Ombredanne suggested including proprietary tools on the list but clearly marking their license as proprietary. Michael Herzog agreed that in their current world, they may need to look at licenses for software, data, and service/API. Steve Springett noted that outside of open source, SPDX license IDs are not widely used in procurement systems.
- **Website Repository and Domain Naming** Michael Herzog confirmed that the current website repository is under `packageurl.org`, and the plan is to rename it to `www.packageurl.org` for easier recognition. They are also planning to use `packageurl.org` as the public URL, avoiding dashes, based on Steve Springett's feedback regarding security concerns.
- **Governance and Community Channels** Steve Springett raised the outstanding question of governance. Michael Herzog acknowledged this and is working toward a minimum governance structure. Discussions also focused on linking the OWASP CycloneDX PURL chat and the AboutCode PURL chat, potentially by having the community eventually move to a dedicated channel on the broader OWASP Slack workspace, which has a larger user base.
- **Test Module Rewrite** Michael Herzog is planning a rewrite of the testing module, which will include atomic test cases defined at a granular level (one file per test case). This is intended to address issues with test duplication and to provide better instructions to people submitting new PURL type requests. They expect to release a new draft proposal for discussion this week.
- **Licensing for PURL and VERS Repositories** Michael Herzog proposed changing the default license for the purl-spec and vers-spec repositories from MIT to Apache 2.0, arguing that Apache 2.0's terminology for derivative works is more suitable for documentation. Steve Springett supported Apache 2.0 as an "easy button" that is compatible with the Ecma BSD-style license. Philippe Ombredanne emphasized that a license change requires an orderly process with community agreement and that it should be made clear to implementers that the repository license does not mandate their implementation's license.
- **git PURL Type Discussion and Tooling** Jon Moroney discussed the need for a generic git PURL type, which is necessary for the tool they are developing to simplify advisory publication by encouraging users to submit commits. They noted that current PURL types only cover GitHub and Bitbucket, which restricts the tool's flexibility. Philippe Ombredanne recalled that this discussion about a generic type has happened before, noting that the original intent of PURL types was to encapsulate "package quality," including metadata access and conventions.
- **Alternatives for Version Control System Representation** Philippe Ombredanne suggested two routes: defining a PURL type for all major forges, or defining a new concept specifically for version control, such as a `vcs_url` or a generic `git` type. Jon favored a generic type, which could eventually be replaced by a broader `vcs_url` concept. Michael Herzog noted that the current handling of vcs_url qualifiers refers to confusing external references like PIP and convoluted SPDX definitions, indicating a need for clearer, internal definitions.
- **Enhancing Tooling and PURL Type Conversion** Jon highlighted that the test suite needs to include examples that convert URLs (e.g., GitHub or Bitbucket) to the corresponding PURL type, which is crucial for building confidence and improving the vulnerability management space. Steve Springett suggested creating an interactive playground on the website where users could input a URL and have the PURL type generated for them. Michael Herzog agreed to create a master issue to track the discussion and next steps related to Git-related PURL types, including the vcs_url qualifier issue.
- **Documentation Update for git GitHub Type** Jon proposed creating a PR to add URLs to the documentation of the git GitHub type within the next couple of days, specifically mentioning the need for clarity. Jon intends to tag Philippe Ombredanne to double-check the changes and plans to try adding the URLs to the test suite as well, while noting that they are inexperienced with the test suite and may need corrections.
- **Next Steps and Scheduling** Michael Herzog confirmed the meeting was concluding and asked if there were any other urgent items, confirming the group will convene again on Friday 2026-01-16 for the TG2 meeting. Michael Herzog also noted that the virtual celebration for ECMA-427 was missed but assumed attendees in Brussels would have an in-person celebration.
- **Discussion on Location and Travel** Philippe Ombredanne asked Jon if they were visiting Brussels, to which Jon replied they wished they were, confirming that Jon, Michael Herzog, and John Horan are all located in the Bay Area of California. Jon expressed the desire to attend FOSDEM next year for the first time. Steve Springett mentioned that it would be their first time attending FOSDEM, and Philippe Ombredanne described the good vibes of FOSDEM, noting the recent snow in Brussels.
- The meeting was adjourned.
